so if we think about if we think about
our behaviors
we tend to focus on fixing a particular
behavior right we're like oh i
like i buy too many things and like
micro transactions and
and i spend too much money i'm impulsive
but i think if we really tunnel down
into our behaviors what we find is that
they're like
deep rooted psychological
issues or even like a sense of identity
there are things within us
that actually drive our behavior and a
lot of times we focus on the external
behavior and instead what we need to do
is
look at the internal roots of where that
behavior comes from
and if i had to say one thing about
today's interview it's that
that's what this interview illustrates
and that oftentimes if you want to work
on a particular thing
about yourself be open-minded and follow
where the road leads you because you'll
end up
finding something that's really
worthwhile
hi youtube
hey hey poggers how you doing
the rich lord i'm so excited to be
talking with you i think i have the
right
microphone and the right camera is my
mic sound all right
uh i think so all right cool cool
let me just check yeah i think it sounds
good um and so what do you what do you
go by
uh you just call me rich yeah okay yeah
yeah
welcome rich yeah i'm really excited to
be here you know i'm from new york so
talking to somebody from boston it's not
something i do very often
that makes sense i'm in texas now if
that makes a difference but
that makes a huge difference yeah way
more now yeah it's interesting so i was
i've always been a texan
um even in boston you know i use the
y'all which is usually the main sign
that i'm from texas
wait people are saying that i'm using
the wrong mic here give me one sec
that might be better oh my god that's so
much better yeah yeah my bad
oh i think he's hold on
he switched oh yep nice my bad yeah
my bad i've been running around all day
trying to get stuff fixed with my phone
so i think it might have actually been
using
like a mobile mic or something but oh my
god right now yeah
yeah so rich um you want to just tell us
a little bit about yourself and maybe
um you know what you want to talk about
today yeah
so i'm a relatively
i'm an extremely impulsive person i
think i'll start there
and uh even the way that i contacted you
was
extremely impulsive and i think that
i've been uh
pretty fortunate that a lot of my
a lot of my uh habits which could be
things that would lead to problems have
never actually led to the terrible
conclusion that they could lead to
but i think acknowledging some of them
early would definitely be good
that's not to say that i haven't had
problems with money in the past i
definitely had which is probably the way
the reason that i am the way that i am
uh but i yeah i figured i would just
talk to you
about it and kind of see what you had to
say
i uh i will spend large amounts of money
in in binge shopping trips and
uh things like that and i think that uh
my chat likes to joke around about
the the pokemon cards which i actually
don't think was bad
uh i think the gentian impact thing is
probably a lot worse
like and that's why after the tweet i
was like i'm gonna say it's less of a
gambling thing
and more of a micro transaction thing
because the fomo from the micro
transaction games
actually works on like even if i don't
play or plan to play
a game sometimes i will see micro
transactions and i'll be like oh my god
they're going away i need to buy them
because what if i need them later
which is probably pretty bad like i have
overwatch skins and i've never played
overwatch before
interesting i did work at blizzard at
the time though so i i think that uncle
bobby paid for it
but that i definitely injected some of
my own cash as well
so yeah the fomo from microtransaction
games definitely works as well and then
there
there's a host of other things that i've
always wanted to talk to you about
uh i think that there was a clip a long
time ago when people were like hey
rich should probably talk to dr k and i
was like
yeah yeah probably so i figured i would
kind of talk to you about
everything yeah so what what else
so you said there are a lot of things so
i'm hearing stuff about
impulsivity binge shopping fomo maybe
that
you have certain habits or predilections
that could end up
really bad but somehow you've managed to
escape through danger
yeah yeah um i definitely have authority
issues
uh that that's actually probably a
really big thing and
that's also probably why uh
i i've done so well with projects where
i
am in charge or i'm working with one
other person who i really respect
uh some people in chat probably know me
as asmongold's friend i
i loved when you you chatted with him as
well that was also one of the big
reasons that i wanted to
to talk to you but asman's somebody who
you know i've
trusted for years so it's really easy
for me to work with him and also
asmin lets me
control a lot of the things that we work
on together to like a crazy degree
which i think help is just beneficial
for me
uh and then also with otk you know i
work with uh i work with tips very
closely
it's another person i respect right but
it's like that if there's somebody who
i'm actually answering to
i don't do very well and i will
purposefully do things to
like assert dominance i think
i i don't know it doesn't feel like that
when i do it but i definitely think that
i probably have authority issues um and
so
i you know rich i i think first of all
like wow dude like
i think you're just an awesome blend of
authentic and also insightful like
you seem to recognize uh either
instinctively like
even when you're talking about the fomo
you kind of recognize
and notice the thought process that
leads to the behavior
which i think is a huge step in the
right direction
i'm good at understanding where a lot of
the problems come from as well
but that doesn't necessarily mean i try
to fix them uh sometimes like sometimes
i outright don't try to fix them
because i feel like they make stuff more
interesting which is a bad habit from a
long time ago
uh so i actually i went to nyu
and i started off and i was uh pre-med
and i wanted to major in psychology and
oh good god
uh yeah yeah so i'm the worst and then
uh after that i had a
i basically had a pre-rack for creative
writing
and it went really well and people were
really digging some of the stuff that i
was writing and i was like wow this is
getting me so much more attention
which i love uh than anything i was
doing
in pre-med in the giant lecture halls
where you know kind of felt like
just a fish in a giant sea and
i i really enjoyed it and i was like wow
i'm [ __ ] up
which actually makes me a more
interesting person and i'm being way
more creative than other people
did that for a while ended up uh ended
up being homeless for a little bit which
wasn't really entirely my fault i know
that people are probably like oh my god
yeah wow he does have terrible money
problems
uh but yeah i ended up uh being homeless
uh kind of
in wake of you know the whole 2008
housing crisis
my family we lost our house and uh
that that kind of it was a whole series
of events where i ended up not being in
college for a year
and i didn't want to go back when my
family had just lost their house
so i just kept working in the city uh
doing this and that and that's kind of
always been my attitude it was just
always like you know as long as i'm
working as long as i'm getting some
money i'll always be able to keep my
head above water
and then when i came back in school i
was like you know what everything that i
was doing before
this happened was stupid and now i'm
just gonna do what i like
because you know life is short i'm gonna
do whatever i like the most
so i started i kept doing creative
writing stuff
but i started focusing on video games
and that was how i ended up
in kind of the station and life that i'm
at now
wow yeah rich that's quite a story bro
yeah yeah it's been a it's been a wild
ride and that's the thing i i've enjoyed
you know people i i'm always nervous to
say this and i've said it a few times
kind of maybe publicly even with asmin
uh where i've just been like yeah i kind
of
liked having money issues at times
it was almost a part of my identity and
uh
i liked feeling like i was winning even
though
the world wanted to kick me in the dick
and i
never lost and it felt really good uh
there were definitely moments where
i felt like i couldn't help my parents
which hurt
um but yeah i think that it's a part of
my identity and i think that's probably
one of the reasons that i treat money
the way that i do now
because uh how do you treat money the
way you do now
you've alluded to treating money like
almost like it's a relationship
yeah yeah i i love money and i also
treat it like it's flammable i
definitely
i definitely uh i
i i go through phases
i i think is a thing that i've my dad
always said when i was a kid even
like when i was a kid like i needed all
of the power rangers figurines right it
was the most important thing ever
and then i get to a feeling where i feel
like i've beaten it and then i never
think about it again
and um i think one of my advantages
do i am as a human being is probably
that as well like i'm mildly obsessive
so like i once i get into something
i'm gonna do it and i'm gonna beat it
and it's the most important thing
whether that's a game
whether that's a project like with otk
i will not uh
i will not like sleep you know
and you know i have friends who are also
like that as well you know
tips literally had his uh had his baby
and
we're on the we're on the phone call and
he's like yeah did you know that babies
like
need to like be burped and i was like no
that's crazy by the way did you see the
new merch uh
like we just never stopped working and i
definitely
surround myself with people like that
and uh
i'm very momentum-based rich can i ask
you a question
yeah what's the problem here i'm not
having any problems i feel like the big
problem
is the money uh so like i feel like
i don't pay attention to how much money
i'm spending
like at all and i have actively said
that i wanted to fix it but then i don't
right so like even with the micro
transactions like i feel like
i need them every time they come around
and
i buy them and i don't think about them
and i haven't run into the problem yet
but i definitely could
you know what i mean like i haven't run
into the part where i'm like
oh i don't have any money left but i
asked myself if i had no money
would i still try to spend all my money
on micro transactions
and things like that because even when i
had less money
like i have a giant sneaker collection
over there i was
i was living paycheck to paycheck and i
would still
spend the money on dumb [ __ ]
you know what i mean what what so help
me understand
i know this is going to sound like a
weird question but like what's the
problem with like collecting sneakers
and living
paycheck to paycheck uh
i like really don't ever want to be
homeless or poor again and i feel like i
spend money in a way where if all the
sudden streaming
didn't continue to be a thing for me
or if like some of these projects that i
work on didn't continue
to go the way that they they did i would
have
nothing instead of having something
saved up to
to rely on
okay so can i think for a second
yeah i'm gonna compose my thoughts
there's a lot here man
okay so we're going to talk a little bit
about money
but i want to just lay out like other
dimensions of things that i thought were
like really fascinating and i'd love to
talk to you about them because
it seems like you do have such a good
leg up on your own sense of
understanding and like your own history
i think it'd be awesome to explore any
of these things one is authority issues
and then there's also this element of
control that you kind of talked about
that like you seem to work well with
people that let you
stay in control that sometimes you don't
try to fix things
that like you sort of know that there's
a problem but that there's another part
of you that's sort of like no
actually we actually thrive on chaos
like that's the other thing that i'm
hearing from you
is that you know your your terrain of
choice that gives you advantages to all
of your stats is actually chaos it's not
order
yeah and and there's also like a lot
that we could explore about your history
and how it shapes you
and the last thought that i kind of had
was and you know this i think we should
talk about money but
we could definitely have a conversation
about ayurveda because boy are you a
classic vata pitta
and what i mean by that is that like so
ayurveda sort of believes that
you know not all human beings have the
same sort of psychology like
you know in western psychology we like
we treat it like a subject that is
monolithic that applies to everyone
but in ayurveda they sort of describe
people's minds
using the elements and you are like a
classic example of a vata pitta and what
avata pitta means
is like you're like a combination of
wind and fire where
you switch directions easily but once
you switch a direction
you're like very fiery in your approach
and you kind of follow through to
completeness
and then you kind of switch to the next
thing and then follow through to
completeness
and a lot of people will like actually
wish they were like you because a lot of
plain vatas will say like
oh i i like switch things all the time
but then i don't
follow it through and so oddly enough
you know they'll look at you with envy
and they'll say like i wish when my
mind wandered i at least followed it
through to completeness before i
switched again
and and so anyway and everyone sort of
envies doshas that aren't theirs but
there may be certain things you can do
ayurvedically to like
literally change your physiologic
environment that causes your mind
to fluctuate and also be so
like you're like a dog with something in
its teeth that doesn't let go
right like and and so there's there's an
ayurvedic discussion absolutely to be
had here
um but do people who fall into that
typically get
like ridiculously bored
and frustrated with it like i like i
things that even that are going well
once i feel like i've
like i so i used to host esports and uh
everything was going really well like i
was i felt like i had
kind of reached my peak like i was doing
like a really good job
and then because i was doing well i was
like all right time to start over
when when i probably would have been
more comfortable in
a traditional sense if i i didn't do
that
yeah so that's a really good point right
so this goes back to like
you thrive on chaos yeah right so it's
sort of like i
you know there's this book that i read
many years ago called taipan by this guy
named james clavell it's a pretty cool
book
but there's this kind of one part in the
book where there's a captain who's on
the deck of his ship
and there's like a like there's a
typhoon and so the captain is sort of
like
like he kind of thinks a lot about i may
be getting books mixed up here but
he thinks a lot about like why he keeps
on going out to sea like he
he's like he's successful he's made
enough trading voyages
he could like retire at home in england
but he just chooses to go like back out
into the ocean for these moments where
there's like
our hurricane that's like heading
towards him and it's like a life or
death situation where he feels alive and
it's just like
he can't just stay at home and like you
know
drink tea like he's got to be out here
in the world like facing danger
over and over and over again it's his
element
yeah it gets the blood pumping it's like
jack nicholson in the departed
right he already has all the money but
he yeah he ends
yeah yeah so so i i think you know we
can sort of look at
where the origins of that thriving on
chaos comes from we can kind of explore
that there may be a vatican
element there but i i think we're going
to touch on that if we actually talk
about money okay
so the way i'd like to anyway so here's
the thought so
the five or six topics is sort of you
know money
which i've got kind of another i can we
can dig into that i have like i want to
say something about that too which i
think could frame that discussion
authority issues why you don't try to
fix things thriving on chaos
your history and how it's shaped you or
ayurveda like what would you like to
start with
but i'm going to toss this out there so
i have a hypothesis that you are a slave
to your mind
yeah i think if we have to root
everything back to one problem it's that
you are a slave to your mind
yeah and this is a real issue because
like once your mind
starts thinking oh my god you're bald
the only way you can calm it down is to
feed it to give in
right to like order some medication on
the off the internet and then your mind
is like ah
and then like there are times where
you're like oh my god like your mind
tells you like oh we need overwatch
skins because what if we one day play
overwatch
and then you're like yes sir aye aye
captain
right and so your mind has these
thoughts and these impulses and this is
kind of tricky because like
i'm talking about your mind like it's in
the third person
but what i'm really hearing is that that
you know your mind says jump and then
you say how high
that your biggest authority issue is
that the problem with your authority
issues is that
you need to have some degree of defiance
when it comes to your own mind
and that giving into your mind calms it
down
like and that's that's what you've
learned how to do you're sort of like
you know
europe hitler invades poland and then
like what does europe do europe is like
oh
that's okay right so like we we just we
just let the beasts run
rampant and we just hope and every time
your mind tells you to do something
you're like
yes sir yeah i might
do this thing i would go a step further
even
like the second that i have a thought
too it's like
it's like okay jump how many different
ways could i jump what's each one going
to lead to
maybe i should jump this way because
that'll lead to more jumping in the
future and i think jumping is like
pretty rad activity
and every single thing i do i think out
like that
yep to the point that's like my favorite
thing to do in life
by far i think one of the reasons i i
play video games too
is because it is the it takes away
all of my real life problems it gives me
problems that i can easily beat
and i can laser focus in on it and it's
like meditation i'm gone i'm not
thinking about anything else
and then my other favorite activity is
like by far sleeping
and i every morning when i wake up uh i
saw you post on instagram a thing about
attack on titan
uh so i feel like this example finally
somebody will understand it when i say
it
uh in season one when aaron
is like basically trapped in his own
head and he's under the blanket
and he's like i'll just sleep a little
bit longer and he
and armin's trying to get him out of it
and he just like can't
get aaron out of it i feel like that
every single morning when i wake up uh
even if there's somebody there trying to
wake me up
like i can't i can't wake up in the
morning and i think that it's because
my brain is finally uh quiet and so i
think that
that's one of the reasons i like
sleeping so what what happens to your
brain
when you purchase something with a
microtransaction
it's like [ __ ] yeah [ __ ] it's like
actually like that like it's like this
like
yeah [ __ ] them it's like it's really
aggressive like it feels
really good to spend money for me uh
even like losing money
feels good if like i gamble uh because
i'm like ha ha i can do that
uh at times yeah
okay yeah that sounds so dumb when i say
it like that but i don't know how else
to
decide so so let's let's try not to be
or it's fine to be judgmental but let's
not let our judgments dictate
our conversation yeah right so so when
you say
you know [ __ ] em
who who is the person doing the [ __ ]
i'm saying i am [ __ ] the world
back right and why is it important
why do you want to do that uh
because i i think
that if i really had to get down to it
i think that there's a level of proving
to myself that
i've beaten
the game already even though i probably
i know i haven't
um why do you feel like you need
why do you have to prove to yourself
that you've beaten the game
i i don't know but i i uh
because i feel like i already do know in
certain ways that i've already you know
done a lot yeah who has to prove that
they're a winner
people people who aren't usually
what are you um i
i think that uh i think that i've won
in a lot of things but i'm i definitely
don't feel like i'm done
but i've definitely i've definitely lost
i i i started completely losing
you know what i mean i grew up in
atlantic city i was poor as [ __ ]
out and you know i i
eat and that that wasn't the only time i
took a hit right
so i think that i still have that like
it's not even that i was losing it was
that the
the world was my enemy and it was like
you ever played yeah you ever play uh
you're playing like pandemic or a game
like that and you know
this the second that you flip over the
cards and it's like oh [ __ ]
like time to spread spread the virus i
felt like i was just flipping those
non-stop
and it wasn't there was stuff that was
out of my control and i know that it was
out of my control
and i would just try to keep changing
stuff
so yeah tell me about atlantic city
sucks uh i i grew up in
a town that was on the mainland
but it was uh it was kind of right in
between i was in like
i was in the most i'm trying to even
think about like what financial station
you would say people in my area were in
there was a really rich town next to me
and then there was like a really poor
town
and it very much felt like my my town
was in the middle
and it was like okay are you going to
kind of
be involved in the the shittier stuff
and the shadier stuff and and and deal
with that
uh or are you going to try to blend in
and pretend like you had money
uh and i wasn't particularly i think
most
really poor people will tell you this i
was so poor that i had no idea that i
was poor
uh and i thought that that was just how
the world worked
and it the people who were wealthier
didn't seem like they were
on a whole other realm of existence to
me
until i moved to new york and i was like
my my god
like these like this is sick that
what did you realize was help us
understand
like you know when you said like
there are different levels like what did
you realize and how did you grow up and
what did you realize wasn't maybe normal
um like i i'm trying to like even think
of
like the best way to say it because like
the moment when i like knew
like in new york at nyu obviously you're
around like a lot of people who are just
like
the top of the top like i have i had
moments where i was like
in these giant brownstones where i'm
looking at art that i had read about
and it's just like in their kitchen and
i'm like what the heck um and
i moments where you know a night of
drinking turned into me being on
my friend's private jet and i'm like
what the heck i rem
i would wear shoot when when i was a
freshman i bought
a pair of sneakers from flight club i
still have them
somewhere i wore them for a year
straight and they had an added feature
where every time it rained my feet got
to go swimming
and that was enough it was a cool pair
of shoes you know
and uh to think that people are just
wailing out on on art and things like
i don't know it just it changed my
perspective on a lot of things
and i don't know if it made me angry or
if it made me hungry or what it made me
i don't know i don't know i truly don't
know
how did your perspective change
felt bad for my mom and dad i wanted to
help them i think because i know i
knew some of the stuff they worry about
and my parents are
more stubborn than me which is hard uh
my mom and dad they work at a uh they go
to a flea mart i'm proud of them too i'm
not i'm very proud of them
and how hard they work but they go to a
they go to a flea market every weekend
and like sell makeup and dog toys and
i try to help and they they don't really
let me my sister actually does really
well too
uh like i i do i do good financially
like i'm pretty okay
uh besides my tendencies right uh but my
little sister you know she's
she's uh she's a little bit younger and
she's actually a producer
over at uh genius the music company uh
that like has like the song lyrics is so
pretty cool job she does well
and my parents just won't let us help uh
they're they're very stubborn
my my dad let me i'm trying to think how
long
ago it was but he let me give him like
uh
a decent amount of cash and every time i
talk to him
he's just like he's like yeah i can i
can pay back man
like kind of thing i'm like stop please
like just let me help
and yeah and at times i i don't even
i won't even call my parents as much
or see my parents because i'm almost uh
yeah i just feel like i could do more
and i don't know how
at times if they won't let me sure
yeah so i know this sounds kind of weird
rich but out of everything that you've
said this is the thing that i want to
talk about the most for a few minutes
yeah i almost want to like
coach you and how to talk to them yeah
how do you feel about that yeah yeah i i
i'd like that so what i'm hearing is
that
you know your parents are fiercely proud
fiercely independent
um but also like struggle and work
really hard for
like not a whole lot of gain yeah yeah
definitely
and and that you know by chance or grit
or some combination of the two you and
your sister have managed to
like you know become pretty financially
like secure at least more so than your
parents and
it sounds like you guys really did not
grow up with things being easy and i'm
guessing that your parents
did a lot and made a lot of sacrifices
to try to like help you guys
you know launch for lack of a better
term
yeah my parents did
everything with no regard for themselves
and just like everything for me and my
sister
like my my mom has always been that way
like uh
trying to get my mom to do something for
herself is very difficult and she
she's like the best parent on the face
of the earth
and my dad is very similar to me
where i think like that's where like a
lot of that uh
that like i'm gonna i'm gonna do
everything myself
uh side comes from maybe it's where i
got it from
uh i'm not 100 sure how that works right
um but yeah my dad's very similar to me
in that regard so i think that
there's probably a level of him enjoying
the the
struggle of it sure what does he enjoy
about it
uh well i i'm like potentially like just
projecting how i feel
uh right now but i've never really
thought about it this way
uh but yeah they're
yeah it's that feeling of like winning
right you know what you have to do and
you do it
and you keep your head above water and
and it feels good
so maybe he feels uh feels a similar way
yeah right yeah you don't need anyone's
help
yeah yeah you can do it on your own
yeah what's it like to get people's help
rachel rick
um
i i don't know i i'm like thinking of
like
i can't just take help usually
from like for no reason like uh
like uh even like on twitch right like
in
things that people see like um
i i don't like if i ever feel like
somebody's like helping my stream and i
haven't done something to warrant it it
bothers me
like what bothers you about that i feel
like i'm taking from uh
i feel like i'm taking from my friends
which i don't like um
yeah yeah i
yeah yeah i think i think taking help is
probably pretty hard for me
how do you understand what makes what
makes it hard how do you feel about
yourself when someone else helps you
uh
i'm trying to think of times when people
straight up helped me you know the thing
with um
you know most of the help that i would
get i would say is from
my my my friends on otk which i don't
feel bad about
right because you know
i'll do anything for any of them at any
time you know
if uh if ms is like
oh dude i want to do this this and this
you know i'll i'll stay up
and i'll be like okay you know we're
going to get this person this person
this person on it
we'll get the graphics made we'll do the
run of show like i'll test everything
i'll make sure it's good
and like i know that that's ready to go
you know if
if tips needs to call me at 5 a.m even
if it's just the talk or if we're
talking about what we're going to do the
next day i'm there
um if asthma needs something i'm there
anybody on otk you know i'm there so
if i felt like i needed something from
any of them i wouldn't feel
bad asking sure right because you can
give back
yeah yeah what's it like to accept help
from people who
you can't give back
the last time i can remember doing that
is uh actually still my roommate now
today
uh right after
right after like um i'd been
homeless and i just gotten into a new
apartment
he started to live with us because he
knew one of my friends
and i didn't know him at all yet and i
needed a computer because i wanted to
start
um i need it for work and i wanted to
use it to
cast online tournaments and to try to
start streaming and he bought me a
computer for like two thousand dollars
and he barely knew me
and uh yeah now like
now i i haven't stopped living with him
for like six years and like i'll pay his
rent sometimes and [ __ ] like that
because i don't know he just did that
for me so i'll never
i'll never stop uh trying to try to
help him you know um so yeah
for him to do like something like that
for you
um i mean i just
basically said that you know if if he
ever needed
something i would always do it i didn't
feel guilty about it
uh i don't think but i basically was
just like yeah
like um after he did it i was just like
i
i owe him a lot i guess
yeah so i'm hearing you say you felt
indebted
yeah yeah yeah for sure you're paying
that debt back
it doesn't it doesn't feel like i'm like
like indentured to him but uh but there
is like
it's almost like a familial tie i guess
it feels like
yeah yeah i'm noticing
yeah so i think there's a certain
let me just think for a second
do you remember what you thought
about yourself
to be in a position where you needed his
help
or you couldn't get the computer on your
own
i felt like i might have been a very
different person at the time too
like when i'm even thinking back um
how are you different
um i was a lot angrier then
i i remember that um
i haven't remembered that in a while i
used to have really like a really bad
temper
um what would make you so angry
i don't know that's what i can't
remember like
um i think when i felt like people
weren't listening to me was probably
one of the things that made me the most
angry like uh
like if people didn't agree with me
after i like made an argument and like
was like wait i'm like 100
right like how are you not hearing what
i said
or or um sure yeah i think that was
probably one of the things that made me
the most angry
yeah i'm just kind of noticing that you
know you mentioned working with asthma
and gold and it seems like part of the
reason you can work with asthma gold is
because he lets you you know he listens
to your opinion respects you
yeah yeah 100 uh same with same with
everybody i work with
i do feel that way with everybody i work
with um even though like we'll disagree
right like
um i'll disagree with asthma and i'll
disagree with tips all the time
but uh i know i know they hear me
you know what i mean and i hear them and
you know i'll change my opinion
sometimes too like i'm not like the a
huge hardhead where it's my way or the
highway
but i definitely do feel like yeah i
i work with somebody who will hear both
sides like if i feel like i'm heard
i can have the conversation and change
my opinion and then i think where
i probably have the authority issues
where it's like they don't listen they
don't acknowledge the value of the other
opinion and then i'm like
ah sucks to suck we're doing it my way i
i do think that that is
probably um yeah
yeah yeah so i mean are there particular
times in your life where you felt like
really disrespected or like ashamed
um i'm trying to think of the time i
felt ashamed i i can't really think of
the time i've felt
super ashamed disrespected definitely uh
i i mean people mean without it but
definitely uh during the blizzard [ __ ]
i definitely felt uh what is the what is
the blizzard [ __ ]
i worked for uh so i when i started
working at mlg which i mentioned kind of
at the beginning of
us talking i um
i it ended up getting mlg got acquired
by activation blizzard so i worked at
activision blizzard
and i hosted and played by play casted
pretty much all of their esports events
i did uh call of duty
i did world of warcraft
other uh gigs that would come up i did
pretty like a lot for them
and uh yeah eventually i ended up
getting uh
if you were saying the ants and bobby
codex maze thing uh
yeah i i ended there was there was a
clip of me
there was there's one time that i've
lost my temper basically
uh while streaming there's one time that
i really lost my temper it was while
playing wow
and that that's actually the only time
that i've really lost my temper
and it was bad it was a bad lsf clip
uh but yeah that's pretty much the only
time i can remember losing my temper in
recent history and that was probably
like a year ago or something like that
um
can can you just hold on a second rich i
think i gotta reconnect the call because
you seem a touch out of sync
one second uh i actually think the out
of sync thing
might have been on my end because my
computer like locked up for a second
yeah um should should i just like leave
the call and come back in maybe
uh yeah hol um sure let's just
leave i'll leave the call and come back
in okay cool sounds good
is that better i think so yeah
so so hmm let me just try to get a
handle on this conversation for a second
yeah let me toss out a couple of things
okay so i'm gonna toss out sort of a
hypothesis you let me know like what
part of this
um yeah let me just let me just
sketch something out okay okay
yeah so like here's what i'm noticing
rich i i think like i mentioned earlier
you know
it seems to me that your core problem is
that you're a slave to your mind
and what i mean by that is that
sometimes you'll have like impulses
right and like the only way to like
satisfy that
the only way to quiet the impulse is
through satisfying it
right so it's like you can't tolerate
not
satisfying it there's also this sort of
idea
of i think somewhere along the way i
mean it sounds like you had a
challenging upbringing you know being
homeless and whatnot
sometimes that can really affect
people's identities
to be screwed over by the world and what
i'm sort of noticing is like in your
subconscious
there's a part of your mind that's like
keeping track of score
it's like there's like a grudge match
between you and the world
and here are all the ways in which the
world has screwed you and here are all
the ways where you've said okay world
you want to screw me like let's go [ __ ]
and then you come out on top i feel like
you're right and
so like you're fighting this like weird
cosmic battle against the universe
in which you like you want to come out
on top
and it feels so good to come out on top
and this is where like so then the
question is you know why do we feel
why does it feel so good to like come
out on top against the universe it's
sort of
and that's where sort of like i think
we're getting into some identities uh
issues of identity and why you need to
be a winner
and like you kind of said you know
people who need to prove
something are the ones that don't
believe it themselves
like i don't need to prove to anyone
that i'm indian
yeah like if people don't think i'm
indian like that's
totally fine like sometimes i get
mistaken as hispanic and like that's
cool you know like no big deal there are
things that sometimes i feel like i need
to prove to people
and the more that i've looked at like
you know if there's anything that you
feel like you need to prove to people
it's something that you need to
you tend to believe yourself and this is
where i can only imagine
all of the instances where life
tried to tell you that they're like
winners
and losers right there are people who
have homes and people who don't have
homes you grew up in this town where you
saw the losers over there
and the winners over here and it's like
which camp do i want to be in
yeah and then you like went to nyu where
you were like okay like
you thought you had figured everything
out and you were like okay i'm a pretty
decent human being my parents are legit
they're hard workers i can respect them
i can love them
and still this voice in the back of your
mind like you show up at your friend's
place and there's like this artwork in
the kitchen that you've only read about
you're like wait a minute
i thought i had this figured out but
like and then there's the private jets
and whatnot so as you kind of like
intermingle with these different people
like i get the sense that
on one level rich you're very very
confident in who you are it's clear to
me that like
you know you believe in what you do it's
clear to me that you're a caring person
it's clear to me that like you respect
your own work ethic as flawed as it is
um i think you can really say honestly
that you're someone that people can
count on
which i think is an awesome part of your
identity
like you know p you're reliable for
everyone else except for yourself
right so like if a friend needs you to
make a doctor's appointment you can make
it like that
but if you need to make your own
doctor's appointment uh
yeah you know and so i i'm getting a lot
of issues of really
identity and sort of like this idea that
like you need to win
which i think sort of tangles up with
these authority issues because i think
there are some relationships where
people
make you feel like they're trying to
disrespect you or like they're like
trying to push you back into the loser
category
and you're like i ain't having that like
there is no way that i'm going to let
you
push me back into the loser box because
that's not who i
am but that yeah go ahead
yeah i i feel like i um
any time that i'm trying to even think
how to
put it into words but like i feel like
there's
just this um any time that something
pushes back against my will
it it does feel like it's it's almost
war and that drives me and
i think that that's a lot of the reasons
that i'm able to do what i do
like the second that one thing doesn't
go my way it's like oh
i i will remember that and i am keeping
score
and i will balance the scale and i think
that that's something that's
always been a part of who i am
beautiful so now rich we get to the real
crux of the problem
which is that if you want to change you
have to give up something that works
really well for you yeah right
so so i think this is where like what
i'd say that that what i would
advocate for you and what i'd ask you to
think about
is i want you to think about your mind
is a group of like
horses pulling a chariot and the thing
is like when someone
you know takes like you know takes a cut
at you or disrespects you
those horses like take off or maybe we
should think about it more like a dog
sled where
like you know there's a group of dogs
and your mind is like is ready to throw
down it's gonna keep track
i think the problem though is that like
you can still what i'd really love to
start you on the path on is like taming
those dogs where like
you can still let them off the leash
right like you can still
access that scrappiness
that fight that gutsiness that drive to
succeed
that drive to prove other people wrong
but that
it doesn't drive you you control it
like the problem right now is you're the
one on the leash and the dog is the one
that's got like
you know the leash handle in its mouth
and it decides it's gonna
fly off the cuff whatever it feels like
and so it's a really powerful thing to
like
you know to have this sort of like i'm
going to prove the world
wrong and i'm going to stay up until 4am
and make sure
everything is done right to get to where
i need to go but the problem is like
that's wonderful
the issue is like who's in the driver's
seat
yeah yeah it's funny the second that you
even like
talk about changing or anything like
that
like instant resistance like i like like
it's not like uh
it's not like i'm gonna like freak out
uh and get mad but it's like a faint
like what
like no i why would i yeah it's just
like in the back of my mind like the
bottom of the stomach almost just like a
yeah rich so let's let's bring it to the
forefront right
so help me understand what that voice is
saying
what's your resistance um
it's just it is like a uh partially just
like
you've gotten here because of that why
would you just
and then and then the thing that uh the
thing that i always think about
um he's my agent but he became like one
of my best friends like very early on
uh so when i cast it i was on the road
nonstop
which is one of the things i really
enjoyed because there was this
like momentum to it where it was just
like yeah i have to get on this plane
like and there was just like this
constant pull back and forth and there
were moments where
there was a nice lack of control uh and
then the second that i would sit down
i was in control of the show you know
that's why i like hosting more than
play-by-play casting like i am in
control
this person's gonna say this and like i
have a feeling for when all of that's
gonna happen
i'm the one who calls for the ad break i
know the best time to do it
and there there was this constant back
and forth of it
and i couldn't like i never wanted to
stop doing that and the second that i
did i
i would that's when i would you know go
crazy
shopping doing whatever um gambling
maybe
uh just just going going nuts and my my
agent
his name's david um he he said to me
he was like you're missing peace in your
life that's like the one thing
that you're missing and i i've always
acknowledged that and i've always
thought about that
but i don't know if i could ever have
that peace and not just be bored out of
my mind
sure so i i think you can because like
this is where
peace for you doesn't need to be
not doing anything yeah right so but i i
think you definitely get there but i
think it requires some degree of
surrender i think your problem is that
you're hung up on control
so like this is where we have to really
think about and get to the root of like
what happens rich when you're not in
control
and even before we get to that question
when you spend a bunch of money
on a particular thing are you in control
or are you not in control
i think i'm not
at times and that's when it feels bad
but then at other times i feel super in
control which is
absolutely right and then i think i try
to chase the good part of it
and then i think my answer to me not
being in control is i genuinely believe
that most of the time it's the wrong
decision for me not to be in control
because i think i make the right call
i genuinely believe that so let's
let's talk about the purchasing for a
second so i'd say that purchasing is
your way of taking control
yeah i i would have i would agree and
then there are moments where
i feel like seeking sickness sickeningly
not in control yeah so those are the
moments when you realize that the
control you're creating is false
and what do you do when you feel those
sickening moments
of a lack of control
i usually keep going right so so i'm
gonna
try to toss an answer out you try to
push him away as hard as you can
right you're like forget it no no no oh
my god like there's a sickening pit in
your stomach i'm spending too much money
i could be homeless one day and you're
like
nope nope i'm losing control let me
purchase more things ah
yeah yeah
that was close we almost lost it rich we
almost realized we're
really not in control here good job
let's buy more stuff
and feel like we're taking in control oh
my god we're we're losing our hair we
could be bald oh my god what would
happen if we're bald oh my god asthma
gold who's so molding
thinks i'm bald we better take control
should we go see a doctor
oh no no no we shouldn't see a doctor
because what if they say
i don't know what they're going to say i
can't control what they're going to say
what if they prove me wrong i don't want
that
i better just order this [ __ ] on the
internet and do my own research because
i'm right most of the time
yeah yeah yeah
right yep and then we kind of get to
this thing where like you
are right most of the time why do you
need to be
in control because when you're not bad
things happen
right what happened to you that was bad
that
you weren't in control of like let's
think about that
uh definitely losing the house and
yeah and
i feel like even on project like any
time that i haven't
made the call on business decisions
it's a less than optimal outcome uh
now there are there are times when i
work closely with other people
that um you know like
ot otk in particular is like the
pinnacle of me
giving up large portions of control and
i don't feel bad about that
like i genuinely do not uh there are
there are big portions of me giving up
control that i don't feel bad about at
all
because i genuinely believe in all of
those people to a ridiculous degree
which is why
why it works but i've never felt that
before in my life and if i ever work in
another project i wouldn't be able to
give up the control in the same way
rich you ready for we're on the same
team right now
yeah yeah you ready for us to go into
versus mode
yeah i'm ready okay so here's the thing
like
i think that you really have to
re-examine some of those beliefs
which ones in particular i'm about to
lay them out so you say that when i'm
not in control things
wind up sub-optimally i know this sounds
really weird but that is a factually
impossible statement okay
i know it's going to sound right just
just run with me here and then biology
push back and prove me wrong
so i think that our mind does something
it's really interesting right because
you say like
when i surrender control if i do it with
otk people
it works out well and if i do it with
non-otaki people it doesn't work out
well
and i want you to be really really
careful here about what your mind is
projecting on the situation versus what
is actually reality
yeah okay so like the first thing is
that if i make a decision
i can say that this outcome was
sub-optimal like this happens all the
time at healthy gamer where like
you know my wife and i my wife is ceo
and sometimes we disagree on stuff
and so just to give you like my own
experience maybe i'm wrong here but i'm
curious what you think
so like something will happen and then
it was my wife's decision
and then i'll say that was a sub-optimal
outcome if we had done what i
said things would have turned out better
but the crazy thing is that even though
my mind
says that i don't actually know that
because i actually don't have data
about the road not taken but my mind
loves to think that
what do you think about that i do think
that i base
most of the how how i feel about this
particular thing
off of the successes i've seen when i've
made decisions
uh i i as do i bro yeah like the
so the thing with um
the thing with like like use my example
of like otk for example right
i i genuinely know that like i've
there's proven success with every
individual right and and i think that
that's why
the trust is there i think that there's
control
in if i play like a cooperative board
game though
with my friends like friends in general
i'm pretty much making
every move right and i i don't know
sometimes you know maybe they would make
a better move uh i do agree with that
and you know sometimes when
they've said uh you know like let's say
you know
use pandemic as an example again
sometimes it's like oh yeah well what if
i actually move here and i'm like oh
yeah that's a pretty good line maybe you
should go for that
you know maybe i don't see all of those
because i'm so
focused on what's going on in my head so
now we get to the important thing okay
which is
what's the consequence
of someone else being in control outside
of otk
uh well i mean it depends case by case
like what the
decision we're making right um but if i
was
if i was making let's say i was doing a
show
for example i was making a show and
somebody else would be in control
i know that the show would be
worse if most of the time if i wasn't
making a call
and i i do feel like i relinquish
control when
there are
very competent people involved like
i like i'm thinking about shows where i
have relinquished control like
just thinking about shows in particular
and those are a lot of
the the best crews that i've ever worked
with i would want to work again
and most of the the things where i was
like
if i don't have control like i really do
believe i'm right uh the more that i
think about it
which you know maybe maybe i'm not uh
you know i'm willing to
to dig in deeper but most of the shows
that i
don't work on anymore and didn't do
things the way that i wanted
them to be done they suck now they're
terrible like they're either actually
they're not as good
uh with so now and now rich we come to
an interesting point right so i'm not
doubting your competence
i think the main thing that i want to
point out to you is that like you know
so
so i sort of feel the same way that like
you know when it comes to healthy gamer
i i feel like when we do things based on
my conception
things tend to work out well but i think
i've managed to learn the hard way that
you know i had a lot of cognitive biases
in place that would allow like my mind
to filter information in a weird way
which is just how our mind works
our mind loves to take credit for the
successes
and loves to blame others for the
failures and so you just have to be a
little bit careful about that
i agree yeah i think the main thing for
that that i want to share with you and i
want you to focus on is not so much
about whether taking control or not
taking control
is the right decision what i want you to
really focus on
is what the internal feeling is
if you have to surrender control yeah
yeah
um
right because like even though it's like
this weird like ominous feeling
like like it does feel like something
bad about so happens so and here's
here's the other thing i don't think you
even really surrender control
like you're still in control when you
surrender control right
like you're like i'm gonna choose to put
my faith in otk people
which is actually you still being in
control
yeah yeah yeah
that that is a way that i've never
looked at it before and i totally agree
i i i choose actively
to trust those people yeah and and i
know that it was the right decision
yeah yeah but you see it's still your
choice you're not actually surrendering
anything
i agree with you fully yes right it's
like it's like if i'm
you know i will let my kid i let my kid
pick whatever they want off the menu but
like who's actually in control there
it's still me
yeah yeah yeah
so i've never i've never looked at it
that way before yeah so
so what is tell me about this ominous
feeling right so this is the
key thing remember we don't want we want
you to be in control of yourself but i
think the weirdest thing is that you're
ultimately a slave to your mind so
you're
you know in in your mind wants to be in
control so what is that ominous feeling
tell me about that
uh it manifests in a few different ways
uh
that are definitely interesting because
like um i actually
really don't get in most situations like
nervous in a typical way
it's definitely something that i've like
noticed about myself like um
i remember one of my first really big
shows uh for call of duty
the i had never been on like a stage in
front of people before
completely sold out venue sea of faces
like actually like felt like i was in a
movie and my ifb
broke and i so i couldn't hear anything
i had to hit three different marks i was
supposed to look at a camera before i
got optic gaming out on the stage
this is like one of my big moments you
know you mess up your career is over
everything's broken i didn't feel a
single ounce of stress i just got up
there and i did it
and it felt incredible and i was excited
because things went wrong uh i can
remember a lot of different
circumstances where things went wrong
and i did a good job and those are some
of my best memories
um because i once again something that
you've aptly pointed out i won
even though things went wrong but the
way that it manifests in normal
situations
like if i'm just thinking by myself and
i'm thinking something out
i get really i feel really warm and
uh like i just feel like really hot um
yeah beautiful beautiful connections
rich so let me just lay that out a
little bit
more okay so i think you hit up you hit
the nail on the head i love it that i
didn't even have to point it out so like
here's the thing so i wanna i'm gonna
toss out a hypothesis is that rich
lacks faith in himself why do you love
chaos because when you're in chaos
and everything in the world is against
you that's when you can get that
data you can see the evidence that rich
doesn't need to lack faith in himself
when all the world is against you and
then you triumph
that is such good
like energy against the idea that i am a
loser
it's when you feel your best self when
you feel alive and in that moment
you know a hundred percent that you are
a winner you are not a loser
it i would challenge that slightly i'm
not even necessarily fully disagreeing
but right now i feel like i have like
almost like a clarity of like how that
moment
feels it feels like my purpose in a
weird way
like yeah and i i maybe there there's a
portion
of proving in there like i definitely
think that there is
but it's like those are the moments when
i can win those are kind of the moments
that i live for
and if i don't have them i am
it's not even a self-worth thing it's
just like i'm
so bored and what is the [ __ ] point
you know what i mean
does that make sense so yes so here's
here i i completely agree with what
you're saying i think the proving is
going to come in a second but
i think in those moments you're kind of
in this flow state and i think that's
when you're actually
the closest to your truest self
yeah yeah right right so that's when
like you were put
on this earth to do particular things
and
the person who can handle the ifb broken
and hitting three marks and not like
that's you baby it's like everything
that you were born for
i can get behind that a hundred percent
i can get that it's your purpose
so then that begs the really weird
question
if you can thrive when there's chaos
around you
why the [ __ ] do you need to control
anything
because i know
all of those situations that are they're
not
natural and one day i'm not gonna have
them and then i feel like
even with the money even with like all
of these things i won't have anything
because one day i won't be
play by play casting anymore or hosting
anymore right i've already slightly
moved away from that
one day i won't be in like these
scenarios of extreme stress
like and then what am i going to do you
know what i mean am i just going to sit
on
like a beach and people you know what i
mean like
i think that that's what i'm scared of
i'm scared of like losing my
purpose i think which i've never thought
of it that way before but now i feel
like
that's what it feels like to me like
it's not even um it's not even like
the i do like the attention of the job i
definitely do but it's not even that
like i felt um
i used to there was like a week before i
fell into being on screen talent
where i was doing i was running the
graphics and that felt good too
because if i spelled something wrong if
i hit the wrong button
all these things i could ruin the show
and like that pressure
felt super good and
i don't know what i would do if i don't
have
these high moments of pressure where i
feel like everything can
explode if i don't do everything right
okay so this is going to require like
some very very fine tweezers
okay rich so first of all awesome i i
really think it's cool to hear you say
that you're kind of noticing that
it's sort of about purpose and all that
kind of good stuff i think that the the
the tricky thing here is that there's a
lot of genuineness
there's a lot of goodness and i still
think it's sort of wrapped by like other
weird things
so the first is is that like you know
you
fear being bored which i can kind of get
but like i don't know how to say this to
you but
so in a very practical sense i think you
should structure your life
over being what i would call a vata
which means that like
i think you're going to be the most
successful and feel the most fulfilled
when what you do is not the same every
single day
and requires a lot of thoroughness
follow through in energy
and the other part of me says so like i
think it's good to think about how
you're
kind of like that's the situation which
you thrive so that's the life you should
cultivate for yourself
absolutely at the same time i think
you're doing it a little bit blind
because like sometimes you know you're
rebelling against authority and like
sometimes you're like craving chaos and
like there are other things like you
should like see a doctor and all this
kind of crap
and so i think sort of the the boredom
aversion
is different from trying to cultivate
the kind of life that you thrive in
yeah i agree with you i i think like as
i'm like looking at it more deeply too
like
the right right in that split second
before you started
speaking i i thought to myself it's like
wait
why are you like why are you so afraid
of
of being bored and i feel like um
it comes back to kind of what you said
when you were speaking you said
something about how it's
wrapped up in these weird things and
it comes back to identity again i i
think that
living my life in like this state of
chaos
i feel like that's a part of who i am
um i like yeah i
feel like it it always comes back to
identity and
rich yeah who will you be if you're
sitting alone on a beach
sipping a beverage i actually do
have such a huge ego that i still do
believe i will feel like i am the [ __ ]
because i'll think about all the other
stuff and be like oh these are all the
other things i can be doing
and i can have a full russian novel
going on in my head where i just go back
and forth
with myself like i'm [ __ ] calling but
the
but i do think that um there are
there have been times where i got really
sad
thinking about not doing the certain
things so i i'll go back
and try not to put up a wall again the
second that you said it and say it maybe
i don't know
yes so see that that's the interesting
thing right because like you fear
boredom but then i
ask you what would it be like if you
were actually there and you're like oh
it would be totally fine
yeah well i think i think that i just
like pushed back probably
well so so possibly right so maybe the
the wrong thing was the pushback but
maybe
actually i think the wrong thing is your
fear of boredom that's what's not rooted
in reality
i think you would actually be fine being
on a beach yeah
maybe i i think it's your fear of
boredom that's actually not rooted in
reality
like you believe it you have a good
reason to believe it don't get me wrong
your mind learned to fear boredom
and what i'm sort of hearing if i had to
like kind of try to tie it together in a
nice bow which by all means you know
modify it tell me i'm wrong whatever
is that like you've developed this
identity as the guy who's
clutch yeah and if there's no
situation for you to be clutching
you're a no one yeah and so like
you don't wanna i mean chaos like you
gotta you gotta like mess
you gotta you know keep things cause
like that's who you can be when you say
you were on this earth
to like be in this situation and shine
when like
99 out of 100 people would fail that's
who you are
yeah yeah yeah and so if you're bored
like then who are you
you're just and i still haven't really
dug into this but i think
you're you go back to becoming who you
were before you were this person which
is something you do not want
yeah yeah yeah yeah we haven't even
talked about it yeah you touched on it
so well and it's not like um
i i'm never like it
is really really focused on me like
i do a really good job of not comparing
myself to other people which is
something that i'm proud of about who i
am
like for example with my stream i've
always been happy with my stream for
example but
all of my friends are like the biggest
streamers on the platform and i'm not
but i'm happy with what i have uh so
that's something that i'm really
good at dealing with you know and in any
station in life i'm like i feel
fortunate with with what i have
but if you take away those little things
about
like the the things that you've
mentioned about yeah like
i feel like i almost need to get [ __ ] on
and beat it to feel good and i
yeah i i i think i i'm like trying to
even piece it together because i
do feel like you've worded it so well i
feel like i seek that cycle because
that's who i
am and i almost don't even know if i
don't want to be that person
yeah yeah i i don't yeah we desynced
again do you mind just reconnecting
uh yeah sure one sec
all right let me make sure perfect we're
good so so here's
so well well done rich well done i think
it's it's it
i think you know i think what you're
saying makes a lot of sense to me it's
really cool
to hear you kind of say that so let me
try to tie things up a little bit okay
so i think the issue here is that like
you kind of said
you you know and and now we sort of
understand your resistance right this
whole like
this whole branch of our conversation
started off when i said something about
like
changing who you are and there was a
part of you that's like uh-uh
yeah you don't want that right and and
now this is where like i don't know if
we have time to really dig into this but
i think that you're good
in not comparing yourself to other
people
but i think you have so what i'm what
i'm hearing a lot of is
identity there's a lot about identity
ahamkara is the sanskrit word
and the ahamkara always compares
and so the tricky thing is you say i
don't compare myself to other people i
completely agree
i think what you do is probably if i had
to hypothesize we don't really know but
just
understanding the am guard what you do
is compare yourself to the previous you
yeah there's the rich and uh i would
even go a step further because i fully
agree with you
i think i compare myself to
my perceived self-actualized self
too and i i constantly compare myself to
that
and that's where i feel failure at times
if i don't live up to that
so and and now we get to sort of like
the weird ass punch line which is that
like
the you of the past that you're trying
to no longer be
and the you of the future that you're
trying to become through these moments
of chaos and self-actualization and
feeling like you
exist on this world for a reason all of
those are false
you are just you yeah
right and this is where like it also
seems like you don't experience a whole
lot of shame
but i would venture that you probably
need to learn how to
because i think part of like what's
difficult about this is that
you know i think i get the sense that
you're really struggling
and you're terrified of becoming
something that
you know you're like running away from
like being you call it being bored i
don't know what that is but like
yeah you know you know losing your
identity and all that good
good business but the interesting thing
is that i don't actually think you're
lying when you say you would be fine
sitting on a beach
because i think like rich i have faith
in the person that you
are like you are that thing no one can
take it away from you
you are what you are and nothing can
take it away from you whether you're
penniless or rich like sure you don't
want to be penniless and you have to
work on you know put
stocking stuff away and and things like
that but i think at the end of the day
like what you
are is what you are your character is
your character you are yourself
you don't need to like you talk about
being a self-actualized version you know
you
strive towards being a self-actualized
version where whereas i think you know
that in those moments when the ifb goes
out you
are you're self-actualized like you're
the perfect version of yourself
but what happens when i don't have those
anymore
right like those that's the thing that
i'm tied to so rich
rich as long as you have those things
your sense of self will be tied to those
things
how can you develop confidence in
yourself if i if i
eat burritos every day and then i say to
myself what am i going to eat if there
are no more burritos
i have to stop buying burritos and see
what happens
that's when i discover confidence in who
i am
yeah well so so just to talk about that
further
you know buying burritos every day it's
like
what do you need to set up your reality
to be able to eat burritos every day is
that your favorite thing to do
you need to make uh you need to have a
job where you can make
8.95 the abouts like every single day
so you get the job then you eat burritos
every day and that's what you do
uh for me i like the
i feel the most alive and like love
the situations when [ __ ] goes wrong and
it's much harder to create a reality
where you can do that every day right
so you need to you need to either get
hired for a bunch of shows and do that
every single day
and not be fully in control uh or you
can create an entire company that makes
shows
uh every single day so you can be a part
of those shows every single day which
i'm realizing i did
absolutely and is it bad to try to have
that much control over the world
to create the reality that you want to
live in or is it a good thing
uh that depends on whether you want to
change
yeah yeah right so i i don't i don't i
think you've done a wonderful job of
cultivating the life in which you thrive
i'm not saying throw that life away
but what i'm saying is that your
identity as long as you derive your
identity from
shining in moments of chaos your
identity will be based upon shining
in those moments of chaos and you will
become dependent on shining in
those moments of chaos it is only very
shallow
it's like it's absolutely full yes right
so so
the crazy thing is that i'm telling you
bro i have faith that if you don't
have those shining moments of chaos you
will discover
that you are still yourself and that you
don't
need those things and when you don't
need those things anymore
then you will be in control and your
mind won't
because right now your mind is like oh
my god what will i become
unless i have these moments of chaos
and so then it you you're hungry and you
can't control it right like
you're you're cultivating you're
creating this thing this thing this
thing this thing this thing
and you're looking at all of this like
train wreck of the rest of your life
where you're like ordering finasteride
off the internet
and can't find a doctor and like won't
pay your bills or whatever and what i'm
telling you is that like
in order to discover who you truly are
you need to see
what is common in all of these different
scenarios instead of recreating the same
scenario
over and over and over again yeah
yeah it almost reminds me of my patients
who like wind up in abusive
relationships over and over and over
again because it's like
they're like this is i know i can
survive this and they look for the same
kind of
like subconscious signals with abusive
partners and they get abused
over and over and over again and the
most terrifying thing to them i'm
telling you
if you talk to them most terrifying
thing is if they start dating someone
who's like really caring
and is like genuinely a nice person and
then they just get really confused and
their
mind is waiting for the other shoe to
drop because in their entire life
they've never been with a nice person
and then what they end up doing is
[ __ ] self-sabotaging
because they're like this person can't
really be this nice because the five
people i've dated before
have always turned out nasty and the
nicer they are the nastier they are
and then they run across someone who's
genuinely a good person they're like
when is the toxicity going to start when
is the toxicity going to start they get
paranoid they get uncomfortable
and they like pull out of the
relationship yeah
and then they engage with the sixth
person who is not nice
and then it becomes a self-fulfilling
prophecy
and so what's happening with you is like
it's becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy
where
you only are alive in moments of chaos
which i completely agree that's your
best self
but i think that your best self your
carry with you all the time
yeah yeah i i think it's funny kind of
the
the idea that you put it's almost like
you know i always think of uh
miss havisham in the wedding dress you
know just like holding on to like those
that that best moment like holding on to
that one thing and just being the old
lady until you fall into the fire
i i do feel like in a lot of ways it's
it's me and my
my caster suit holding a mic and just
like i'll tell you about my
my story uh and yeah i agree that it's
not only me and it's
the the relationship with control is
really weird right
because even with the it's like that
rush
even with gambling right it's like
somewhat out of my control
but even if i lose i feel like i'm
winning and i'm always trying to keep
track of it
yeah i think that those are kind of
probably the biggest things that i need
to change
i i agree uh
well for the record i'm not saying you
need to change them
i'm just saying what i want yeah i want
to right
uh it's something you've got to decide
whether you want to start to see because
like
here's the thing i mean i could point
out to you rich half a dozen moments
where
you weren't thriving through chaos and
you were still an
awesome best self right like i
and and we've heard them i think
especially if you look to things like
your family and stuff like those are not
you know like like if we think about the
relationship you have with your parents
it doesn't sound like there's much chaos
anymore but i still think you're
you're your best self with them i i
don't know
i i don't know i think i i think i could
be better i think that um
i think that like when there's a problem
i'm always there and
i don't think i focus as much on the the
the times when there isn't a problem
uh so yeah so i do so rich
what are you gonna do about that
um i i've often said that i'm going to
to call them more and be there more i
even
you know like help them
get uh their because they're at risk
help them get their
um their cold vaccine so i would feel
safe for visiting them soon
um but then usually what happens when i
say that i'm gonna call them more is
something super chaotic happens and then
it gets my attention
and i deal with it and then i don't talk
to them as much as i want to
there's the dog off the leash right
so so i think the key takeaway here so
this is where like normally
what i feel like doing is asking you to
call them today
which is good but at the same time i
think the most important thing is to
recognize that sometimes you want to do
things
and who's in control is the dog in
control
or are you in control and notice that
when something chaotic happens your mind
is going to want to run towards it at
full speed
yeah i mean like even even like the the
second that you said call them today i
was like i can't
like the second that you said it like it
just just instantly i was like no i
can't
and then i don't know why i like i
genuinely don't know why
and then i rationalized and thought of
uh
like four different calls that i have
today see like four different discord
messages that i know i need to attend to
um and i don't know why just instantly
because
i definitely feel like even if i try to
slow down the way that my brain just
worked i think that i
rationalized and made up a bunch of
things that i not made up but i
i rationalized found a bunch of things
that i had to do uh
but instantly the second that you say
call them today i just when i can't in
my head yep
yep so you've also discovered another
important thing so
there's a relationship between your ego
and your intellect
and the funny thing is that your ego
bullies your intellect and comes up with
rationalizations
the feeling comes first and then your
ego goes to your intellect and is hey
egos or emotions are going to your
intellect and saying i don't want to
call mom and dad today
come up with good reasons that i can
justify not calling them
but if you pay attention to your
response the i
can't comes first and the reasons come
after and then we think logically i
can't but that's not the order of
operations
it's not you think about all the things
you need to do oh by the way i can't
call them
the i can't call them comes first and
the rationalization comes after
so the question is what how do you feel
when i
ask you to call them i i don't know why
i just instantly said i can't
and it was emotional like i i know that
it was
and i don't know why like i i
am i lazy like what's going on it's not
lazy
lazy is lazy is an umbrella term that we
use when we don't have good diagnostic
information
yeah um i can toss out a couple of
things
are you afraid that is there some
negativity hanging between you and your
parents like
are you afraid that like your dad is
gonna think about the money he owes you
and things like that and it's gonna go
down that route and like what are you
trying to avoid
by not calling them there's a million
things that i could be trying to avoid
but none of them pop up right like
um like uh
maybe maybe it's guilt but i feel like i
do this with multiple
things not just the parents thing too so
there could be different reasons for all
of them i mean with my parents
um
maybe there maybe there's a level of
guilt maybe there's there are things
that i'm trying to avoid with
um i i don't know i
but some of those problems that would be
causing the guilt are always
also the things that make me
actually call you know what i mean yeah
so so this is where this is where
i think at the end of the day rich i i
mean maybe we can dig into this but i
think it could take some time so i'm
going to leave you with one or two
hypotheses and i'm going to leave you
with a plan
so the most important thing in this
moment rich is not to figure out why you
can't call them
the most important thing is to recognize
that your mind is
saying one thing and you have to make a
choice whether you're going to let it be
in control or whether you're going to be
in control
yeah that's the most important thing
notice
that like this is the problem the world
can't actually compete against you rich
you
own the world all the time you dumpster
it right and left
true true right your biggest enemy is
yourself
yeah yeah and so like that's like that's
the battle you have to fight so like
even though you don't want to and you
can't figure out the reason
you know like we can go down that road i
suspect it has something to do with
shame to be honest because i think that
there's a
there's a noticeable absence of shame in
all of what you're saying
and and like i think it could be
something weird like protecting your
parents from the shame of like
that you know is going to happen if you
call them because
every time you call like you're going to
want to give them money
and you're going to want to help them
and your dad isn't going to want to
accept it
and like that whole mess is like so hard
to navigate that like it just makes you
not want to
call yeah i i don't know maybe
the shame thing's interesting uh the the
thing is though is like i
i genuinely do believe that my parents
are just overwhelmingly proud
so i don't even know even if they do
push that away if they would experience
shame
and i do think that it's weird that
when you bring up shame i can't think of
a single time where i've
experienced shame which is weird
i can't it's very time i've ever i've
because usually when people are homeless
they experience a little bit of shame
usually when people grow up poor and
they walk into their friend's place and
their friend
has a painting which they read about on
the internet they feel a little bit
shamed
usually when people are like grew up
broke and have parents who work at flea
markets
and you get on a private jet of your
body in college you feel a little bit of
shame
like usually it's gotta be somewhere in
there
and there's a conspicuous absence of it
and because they're proud they don't
feel shame on the contrary
shame and pride are like two opposite
there's two sides of the same coin
right the pride is the reaction to the
shame it's the protection against the
shame
yeah your dad i can't even think of a
time that i've been
extremely prideful because
when i've needed to i do think that i
have accepted help the help thing is
like where i'm trying to look now
because of the shame thing
but like i received help from a friend
and i know if i didn't receive that help
and i don't feel bad about it i don't
feel any shame about it if i didn't
receive that help i probably wouldn't
even be where i'm at today
now i'm thankful for it you know i'll do
yeah i i think the two aren't mutually
exclusive because i think there are
moments where you're closer to the
true rich and there are moments where
there's like this other weird
rich you know this this i don't know
what else to call it but like i'm just
gonna call it like you know the
loser rich or the poor rich or the
homeless rich like there's something
there's something about like you know
and i think you even fear even when we
talk about the money
you fear being that rich again and the
reason that you
but i i'm sorry to cut you off dr k
there's this thing that
though like where i'm still so proud of
that like that there is a
i am proud of the fact that i was
homeless
where i think you know most people would
feel shame like no i
look i that i did that was my chapter
that was one of my challenges
and what's on the opposite side of the
coin from prison that that's that's
yeah there you go like that that's issue
but i am proud of it and
do see identity with it so absolutely
yeah
and i think it's it's neither something
it's not something to be
at the end of the day it's not something
to be proud of or ashamed of it's just
it's just what you are
right like it's like actually just a
piece of you and it's not like good or
bad
but i i think it makes i really found a
little bit of the pride right like
yeah but but i i think it's it's
interesting because developmentally what
i'm also hearing is that like you
weren't
you don't really even know what shame
looks like yeah
and that's probably because like you
said when you know when when you call
your parents you're like
they're so proud i don't even know if
they know how to feel shame so i think
you're
you grew up con
learning how to convert shame into pride
it's going to be heads every single flip
even though the details is right
underneath like
it's just how your your family like
functioned right
and so there's something about like i
don't know why but like i don't think
you are not
calling them because of your fear i
think you're
a loving son i think you're a protective
son
and i think the reason that you don't
call them is for their sake
not for yours
why don't you call them rich why don't
you
call them today i i think i think that i
think that i will
but i i'm trying to think why my my
knee-jerk reaction was to
to say no right and
i i when you say that i'm doing it to
protect them i do feel like a little bit
of anger
insinuating that they need me to protect
them so i do think that maybe that
that reaction shows that maybe there is
a level of
uh maybe you're right uh because
even you saying that i'm like they don't
need me to protect it like
i'm protect i'm protecting them from you
saying that they need to be protected
absolutely right
it makes me angry that if you said
something negative about me yeah yeah
it's weird right
yeah very well done by the way i mean
like i said
i mean i noticed at the beginning i
thought you were pretty insightful but
damn sound like you just
you just did it usually i have to walk
people through that
right like that noticing of like oh crap
like how dare you say they need to be
protected
they don't need to be protected yeah and
in doing so you protect them
yeah right it's interesting
yeah yeah it's definitely interesting
and i i think that
it's funny because i i think uh a lot of
what i do
even when i'm doing stuff online too
because it's like it's easier uh and you
feel like much more
i think most people who watch anything i
do online would probably think that i'm
like an absolute idiot which is fun like
i like doing that you know i'll go on
i'll say my poop jokes and you know that
that's
that's what i do feel like made some
people happy uh
even when um when i'm hosting
usually i will pretend that i don't know
very much
about the game right because i know
that what people need to hear like the
the actual thing that people
need to hear uh because they will
respect it the most
is the player the analyst saying these
things about the game
so i'll play dumb and i'll have them say
the things that need to be said even
though i know what they're going to say
already
and i feel in control with it and i'm
fine to to play the clown
and get it out there but there you are
teeing other people up for success
which works for hosting right i think
that that's the entire thing of the job
but i don't really have many outlets
where i talk to people about
what's going on in my head also because
i don't ever want to burden people with
it
um like uh like even with um
like if i if i'm dating somebody or
something like that i won't tell them if
anything's going wrong
i i like i won't um
so i i know that that's that's a thing
there as well and the only people that
i'll ever like
really go into
maybe like crazy details about what's
going on my head are probably
like asthma and tips again sure yeah
yeah i think i'm noticing that there are
some people you let into the circle
and once they're in the circle there are
no authority issues there are no control
issues
there's no issues of help and pride and
shame and
all that kind of stuff it's like there
are people that get to see the real you
you get to be the real you with them
and it sounds like your parents are
actually outside of that circle
yeah yeah um they they didn't even know
that
um i didn't have a place to stay when i
was in new york i lied
they they don't know half half of the
yeah why did you lie
because i didn't want them to know and i
didn't want them to feel like they
failed me
i i know that i i know that yeah
yeah look look at this main tank over
here
yeah right tanking everything taunting
everything gotta protect mom and dad
can't let them get aggro can't let them
know that you know
they raised a son who's struggling
yeah um i do feel like that
that maybe one of the the failures with
that too is i i feel like um
a lot of people in my life probably feel
like an absence because of it of me
yep for sure yeah
so rich i think you should call them
and i'm gonna equip you with one thing
that
to so if your dad brings up the money
and says i'm gonna pay you back
i want you to ask him a question and
and this que the question is can you
help me understand
why you need to pay me back yeah
right and and i think you guys need to
get
eventually to a conversation about like
does family
owe each other things i i i
instantly hear his voice in my head like
i just instantly
uh like hear him talking about
we're your parents we do everything for
you
why would we you know like yes like i
can literally hear him
in in my head my father's very uh
my father's like a very rough person
at times like with how he speaks but
then also like incredibly
smooth talker randomly i he'd know that
this is something that he will handle in
that very
head-on gruff manner like i can hear his
accent even in my head like like the
philly accent would come out
and all of a sudden you know it would
yeah yeah
yeah so then i think the next question
is like he's like oh you know
we're your parents and we take care of
you
and and then this is where you can kind
of say like
are you sure about that or like how does
it feel
to like be up you know to
kind of essentially what i'm hearing is
that he views himself as a failure of a
parent and how can you guys have a
conversation
around um
you know that you just don't see it that
way
does it have to be that way is that what
parents have to do yeah and
and how can you explain to him and you
can even say this and you can say that
you know dad you guys have given me so
much
you've given me so much like i don't
know how to explain to you that
you've given me so much that
like the money is like it means so
little to me compared to everything that
you've done for me
it's so funny when you said that like i
got so [ __ ] mad
when when you said like called my dad
like like saying that he might feel that
way like i can't even say it
and it reminded me of two things that i
didn't remember
i tried to talk to a therapist when i
was in college uh one time and i got a
huge fight with him
and left and i never did it again i
actually forgot
uh until right now and then uh
i remember that when we lost the house
my dad and i had a conversation just me
and him
and i i remembered he actually said
those
words and uh and cried
uh uh to me and yeah
i i haven't thought about that i was
probably 17
and yeah i haven't really thought about
that uh
i kind of forgot that it happened
yeah yeah so you know that's how we know
we're moving in the right direction
yeah yeah right so when i say things and
they trigger responses i i hope i didn't
you know i i hope it didn't cause you
too much pain i mean i had a feeling it
would cause you some pain and i did it
i just got mad at you for a second you
got really mad at it
yeah yeah right so so that means that
there's like so anger is a protective
emotion
anger is like the main tank of the mind
it protects us from things like shame
and hurt
and fear and and other things because
anger especially for men like
we're basically allowed or taught to
express one emotion which is anger
it's the only socially acceptable
emotion it's the only one that we're
given any kind of training on
and so the rest of it is all a blur and
everything just kind of turns into anger
but i i think rich like here's what i
would say i think we should probably
wrap up and we can talk about meditation
if you want to but
i do think that um it feels important to
me or i place a value
on you like having some of these
conversations with your dad like you
don't have to go very deep
but i think it's important even if he
resists your signal or feels like he's
not
accepting it i think it's important for
him
to receive in some even if he bats it
away
for him to hear from you that you think
he did a good job
yeah i'm trying to think i feel like
too i do say that a lot
and i'm trying to think of the best way
to make sure that he really
does know you know and this is this is
hard but like what you have to do is sit
like what you want to do is oddly enough
like kind of evoke the shame
and in a weird way like the worse he
feels about
himself that's
when he needs to hear it right like you
need to see him at his lowest point
and then accept him in spite of that
right it's sort of like and i know it
sounds kind of weird but just drawing a
connection like
when that roommate bought you the 2 000
computer like
it means the most when it's the least
expected
and when you feel like who is this guy
like i don't deserve this this person
doesn't need to do this
and that's when it's the most impactful
yeah yeah it's just like one of those
weird things where it's like uh
i don't want him to get to them the the
like the bad spot
you know absolutely yeah so i think you
protect him a lot
yeah yeah right so so anyway i mean i i
think
you start with a phone call if you can
if you can't
if you can't call them that's actually
okay too just do your best to collect
information
about like what is it within you that
says you can't
and i think you can yeah okay so the
more you understand yourself like the
better you'll you'll be and
i think you and your dad will get there
i'm sure you and your mom and your
sister
and whatnot like you guys have hopefully
have some time right so if you work at
it
i have faith that you'll get there how
do you feel about
meditation um it's
something that i've always said that i
would do
and uh it's it's it's a tomorrow thing
you know
it's like yeah tomorrow i'll get to it i
i've thought about it
uh many times yeah so do you want to do
it today or you want to do it tomorrow
um i know i think if i
i think if i do it tomorrow it'll be the
next tomorrow and the next tomorrow
again so should probably just do it
today yeah
okay now um i'm gonna try to give you
a technique that is uh let me just think
about what technique to give you
something so i feel like doing something
a little bit more
um physical or in nature so i think some
kind of like chanting
is gonna be good so i don't want you to
do something that's a very cerebral
technique
okay because like chances are like
you're about that mind like you're a
little
bit 80d i think it could be a little bit
harder for you
so i want you to do something that's
going to be very experiential
okay and may also be challenging i'm
leaning towards
oh hmm
let me just think for a second i wonder
if i'm underestimating you
just thinking a little bit about how you
rise to the challenge
hold on
what do you want to work on tell me that
i i think like the
i i actually like so i went around and i
i
studied religion for a little while to
try to figure out
stuff like during college and there was
this one
thing that a rabbi told me that i always
thought was
exactly what i would want to get out of
meditation he said uh
you know like the the practice of
rapping
to fill in where they basically they
they wrap
um like uh basically like a prayer box
around their head and then
seven times they wrap around their arms
and the thought process to it
is if you control your your thoughts
and if you can control it's seven to
supposed to represent like the seven
uh primary emotions i believe uh and if
you can control your emotions
it's on the left hand because it's
supposed to be close to your heart then
you're completely in control of your
life
and i once again i notice i'm getting
back to control but
i always thought that if i could
meditate
and actually be able to think on my
thoughts and why i'm thinking about
things
and control my emotions that's always
what i wanted to get out of meditation
and my version of meditation is
sitting and thinking really really fast
right now so i probably would need to
slow down as well
and i think that the assessment that
maybe something more physical
might be wise is probably correct
because like right now i have my own
version of meditation which is uh
like sitting in my bed looking out at
the city
and having like my own version of it
like
moffat sherlock holmes episode in my
head uh where i'm just my mind's like
all over the place
so i'm leaning towards actually so i
think i'm going to pick the thing that i
don't think is the best for you
i'm going to pick the thing that you
want instead of picking the thing that
you need
and and what i actually want to teach
you what what my heart tells me to teach
you
is different from my head my head says
this guy needs like a solid grounding
technique that sort of like balances his
mind and like
puts himself into the present will help
him discover his true self and like
will help him recognize his emotions i
want to teach you something that
kind of clears your mind so that in the
vacuum of your mind some of these more
suppressed emotions can come up
that's what i want to teach you that's
what i think i should teach you but
actually that's what i should teach you
but what i want to teach you is actually
a more intensive practice that may
actually be a little bit harder
that's actually designed to give you
awareness
and it's designed to give you insight
and intuition
and i know it sounds kind of weird but
like i think rich you're like you've
come
so far on your own i want to equip you
with a tool that me that you're not
going to need anyone you can just do
this
and you'll do all the discovery you need
to on your own how does that sound
sounds good it's going to be harder
though okay
okay so i'm going to teach you a
technique called charging the laser beam
okay that's what twitch chat calls it
okay so he did this technique and then
like
i was asking someone you know how does
it feel and they said it feels like
charging a laser beam
so the tricky thing is that there there
could be a very slight physical
sensation it's not going to be intense
but i'm going to just essentially can
you sit up straight
yeah and can you take off your cap and
your glasses
yep okay all right i can't see at all
that's okay you don't need i mean can
you see vaguely
yeah yeah so so what i'm going to do is
i'm going to take this so just give me
the middle finger
yes no no no no so this is
so we unfortunately have to use the
middle finger but so you know between my
eyebrows
there's like a point where kind of my
eyebrows meet and there's an area just
kind of right above it yeah
like right there oh good yeah okay so
what i'm going to do is take my middle
finger and i'm going to hover it
over that point okay not touching
and then i'm going to close my eyes
and i want you to just feel the
sensation right
there where your finger is hovering do
you feel anything
yeah yeah kinda what does it feel like
well sometimes i'm like accidentally
touching
so move further away and then i like
kind of think about like what that feels
like it's like
um it's like a little blue fuzzy dome
yep okay good so i think it helps so
look at me open your eyes
so you have your finger pointing this
way i want you to go like this right so
pointing into it yep a little bit higher
and then are you reluctant to use your
middle finger
yeah i want to flip you off yeah you're
flipping yourself off
right yeah so so try to find that brain
central point and i want you to kind of
like pull a little bit
pull further away okay and then you can
kind of go
in or out just a little bit until you
find the sensation if that makes sense
oh yeah you got it right it's weird
right so like
you're kind of like past the blue fuzzy
dome and then you're kind of like
touching the blue fuzzy dome
but yeah so i want you to just focus on
that we're gonna do this for about 60
seconds
and i'll guide you as to what to do next
but i want you to just focus on that
sensation
okay you you got that sensation
yeah yeah yeah okay so eyes closed go
ahead and relax your hands
just yeah just bring it down let your
eyes stay closed and i want you to still
focus on that point though
and i'm gonna give you a couple of
different options one is when you take a
deep breath i want you to feel that cold
air come
in your nose kind of imagine that breath
going up your nose and into that point
some people may even feel like a slight
cooling sort of swirly sensation kind of
in their
upper sinus
and then the second thing you can try is
to sort of like
drive your attention into that point
almost as if you're like
cognitive energy is like kind of
drilling into it
i feel way more when i do that yep and
then i just want you to drill baby
just drill we'll do that for about
another minute
so your mind may wander you may have
thoughts i'm thinking about way too many
things right now i'm really trying not
to
no that's okay so let those thoughts go
and return to the drilling
you don't want to push them away you
don't want to keep them out just return
to the sensation of the drilling if you
can
if you lose the sensation you can return
to using your finger
now go ahead and relax a little bit let
your attention go
relax your eyebrows deep breath in and
out
all right we're coming back it's march
17th
2021 rich campbell
badass that you are
all the things you have to do today oh
god
see all the thoughts come rushing back
yeah
you're returning to the world welcome
hi i think i'm bad at that
i definitely think i need to practice no
you're not bad you're very good
i thought about like about a billion
different things you know how you know
you're good
oh when i said come back what did you
say
oh god oh yeah when you said yeah when
you said all the things you have to do
today yeah
right so so so what that means is that
what is the oh god that's
all of that stuff rushing back into your
mind
in order for you to get hit in order for
you to get hit by it and say oh god that
means it wasn't in your mind
true true right so let me explain one or
two things you're not bad at meditation
you're very good at it should you
practice absolutely
but i want you to you guys to understand
this so like
each time if you tell your mind to
concentrate on a point and it wanders
away
and you bring your mind back that is
like doing one push-up
and so the more your mind wanders and
the more you bring it back
actually the more the better you're
doing
you're doing like 10 push-ups 20
push-ups 30 push-ups 40 push-ups 50
push-ups
so like it doesn't you can't be bad at
it yeah i did a lot of push-ups
that's so good so so is doing is doing
lots of push-ups
bad no it's good get you where you're
going
yeah right and so i know it sounds kind
of weird but even despite your
perception that you had lots of thoughts
i still think you did a good job at
pushing most of your day away
yeah i was i thought about some old
random stuff i don't know where
yeah so that's that's the vacuum right
so like here's the thing
when you push your day away then you've
got like this vacuum in your mind where
random crap is going to come up
but that's how you're kind of cleaning
out your unconscious
yeah and you don't do that work because
you're usually thinking about your day i
think you did fantastic
okay thank you yeah i know it sounds
weird it's just all about our perception
of like
you're doing it you're doing a good job
i'm telling you just keep doing this
like do three to five minutes a day
and that is like a particular time when
it's dawn and dusk are ideal so maybe
just do it
uh three minutes twice a day yep sure
yeah i think i could i think i could do
that
yeah right you could do you do like six
minutes
twice a week now is it bad that i can't
stop thinking about like
now i'm making a list of my head of
everything that i thought about and
trying to figure out why i thought about
it like this is the type of
this is the type of mental gymnastics
that i'll do frequently
like right yeah is it bad i mean who the
[ __ ] cares you're doing it
so yeah yeah i think it's okay so so
your mind is naturally exploratory
i think it's part of the reason that
you're so insightful and you move so
quick and i don't have to lead you
places
so it's a double-edged sword i think the
main thing is it's a faculty ultimately
what i think is bad
is your inability to control it
yeah but if it's i mean if you know now
your mind is excited about why you
thought all those things okay fine let
it let it let go
cool i mean you're my you're it's not
fine whatever
just return to the practice as long as
you keep going back to the practice
your brain will change okay
yeah thank you you're very welcome any
last kind of thoughts or questions
about today definitely not even uh
what i expected to be talking about it
was way more helpful than
it's it's funny how that happens i'm a
little bit curious what did you find
helpful i know we covered a lot of
ground like what would you say were some
of your takeaways from today
uh i i think the i i think
you know the big things are just
how i can be more present uh
for for my family and kind of maybe what
some of those hold ups are
uh and maybe there's a level of
avoidance that i didn't fully
uh realize and then also
some of the identity things and the fact
that
even in areas where i thought that i had
given up control i
am completely in control of those and
choose who i surrounded myself with
and uh trying to to
piece together what that means and then
also i think one of my biggest takeaways
too
is just there's
a level of exploration and learning that
i can still
do about myself that's way larger than i
i mean i
obviously already knew that you know
that that's a big part of life and it's
in
one of the good things about life is is
getting to to find out all those crazy
things but i definitely think
maybe i should uh focus on this more
actively than i currently do
awesome man yeah i think it's um i think
you're you know
you've got the stats for it so if you
decide to
you know if you decide to walk that
journey i think you'll go really far
and best of luck to you rich yeah i
can't thank you enough
to for you know another impulsive thing
i did randomly tweeting last night and
then
actually having me on was awesome yeah
man i'm i'm really glad you reached out
because
i think this was fantastic so good luck
to you dude bye thank you so much it was
nice meeting you
you're very welcome see ya